For over 100 years,
Jehovah’s organization
has been producing books
to help us teach people Bible truths.
Do you remember
when some of these study books were released?
“This Means Everlasting Life”
was released in 1950;
The Truth That Leads to Eternal Life,
in 1968;
You Can Live Forever in Paradise on Earth,
in 1982;
and Knowledge That Leads to Everlasting Life,
in 1995.
What did those titles have in common?
They showed that it’s possible
for a person to learn
what Jehovah requires to live forever.
And that’s why
we keep searching for people
who are “rightly disposed
for everlasting life”
and who are willing
to study the Bible with us.
All of those books and several more
that we published since then
have been instrumental in helping people
become believers
in our wonderful hope for the future.
In 2021,
we added one more book to the list, entitled
Enjoy Life Forever!
—An Interactive Bible Course.
This title adds another element:
that it’s possible
not only to gain everlasting life
but also to learn how to enjoy life even now.
The title is taken from Psalm 22:26,
which says:
“Those seeking Jehovah will praise him.
May you enjoy life forever.”
This newest study publication
is very different
from all the others that we’ve produced.
In this broadcast,
we want to explain
what went on behind the scenes
to produce Enjoy Life Forever!
Under the direction of the Governing Body,
hundreds of Bethelites around the world
worked very hard to make it possible
for us to have this innovative study tool.
However, they’ll be quick to say
that all credit for this goes to Jehovah.
That’s why we can say
just as the prophet Isaiah said
in ancient times of our great God:
“O Jehovah, . . .
everything we have done
you have accomplished for us.”
We know that any success we enjoy
is because of Jehovah’s direction
and blessing.
And so the theme of this presentation is
“See What Jehovah Has Done for Us!”
“The faithful and discreet slave”
has always taken very seriously
Jesus’ command
recorded at Matthew 28:19:
“Go, . . . and make disciples of people
of all the nations, baptizing them.”
And that’s what our Bible study activity
aims to accomplish.
For decades,
our method of conducting studies
was to study printed material
paragraph by paragraph.
When answering
the questions for the paragraphs,
some students would often just repeat
what was stated in the book.
However,
it was hard to know whether the truth
was really touching their heart.
With Enjoy Life Forever!
we’re using a different method of teaching
that generates candid expressions
by the students in their own words.
This is just what the Governing Body
feels is needed
to bring new ones to dedication and baptism
during these urgent last days.
If you’ve begun conducting Bible studies
with Enjoy Life Forever!,
you can appreciate
how it’s adjusting our Bible study work.
Here’s what some longtime pioneers have said
after covering just one lesson
on their studies:
“This was
the most beautiful spiritual conversation
I have ever had with a student!”
“My student revealed things
she had never told me before.
I felt as if I was hearing her heart
for the first time!”
“It truly reaches the heart
and motivates students to action.”
And one brother wrote:
“I am so excited about this new Bible course
“that I am begging Jehovah to hear my prayers
to be able to conduct progressive studies.”
It was early in 2019
when the Writing Committee
took on the amazing project to produce
a new Bible study tool.
They assembled a team of writers,
designers, and consultants
to investigate whether we could improve
the publications that we were then using.
At the very first discussion session,
everyone was encouraged
to pray often about the task at hand
—to pray when thinking about it,
when brainstorming with others,
and when working on it—
and to respond
to the influence of holy spirit.
Why pray so much?
Proverbs 16:3 gives the answer:
“Commit to Jehovah whatever you do,
and your plans will succeed.”
The team was also encouraged
to think outside the box,
which means to think outside, or beyond,
the way things
have always been done in the past.
Times have changed,
people have changed,
and the way that many prefer to be taught
has changed.
These days they respond better to multimedia
that engages them
and holds their attention.
The team was shown a puzzle
that illustrates what it means
to think outside the box
—the nine-dots puzzle.
The challenge is to connect all nine dots
with just four straight lines.
Here are a few examples
of how some will try to solve the puzzle.
Notice that with each attempt
one dot is missed.
The problem is that our mind tends
to build a box around the dots,
and that instantly limits
what we can imagine.
The only way to connect all nine dots
with just four straight lines
is by going outside the box
and thinking differently
than we normally would.
The point was to show
that novel, creative thinking
was needed to imagine something
other than the traditional way
of studying the Bible with people.
With Jehovah’s spirit guiding fresh thinking,
it would be interesting to see
what innovative ideas could be thought of
for how to teach the truth to Bible students.
And yet,
it was felt that our brothers and sisters
would need to see some familiar features
in the new publication.
That’s why the first part of each lesson
is designed
similar to the Good News  brochure.
It features numbered questions,
each followed by a paragraph
that briefly covers fundamental facts
about the topic.
Next, the “Dig Deeper” section
reasons on the topic,
shows how to apply what’s learned,
and discusses what the topic teaches us
about Jehovah.
It includes features found
in the Life and Ministry Meeting Workbook
—bulleted discussion points,
scriptures to read,
videos to play,
and viewpoint questions to answer.
And like the study articles
in The Watchtower,
the last part of each lesson
includes just three review questions.
It was decided that we could cover
much less printed material
and let the Bible do the teaching
and that we need
to draw out the student’s feelings
with well-worded viewpoint questions
and include videos and generous artwork.
We must help the student
to see Jehovah as a real Person
and to develop
a warm relationship with him
and encourage the student
to get into a routine
of regular Bible reading, prayer,
and meeting attendance.
Does Enjoy Life Forever!  provide
what we need to accomplish all of that?
It certainly does!
The scriptures
are the focal point of each lesson,
so the student is prompted
to find answers in the Bible.
The questions draw out the student’s feelings
about what he’s learning.
Early in the course,
students are helped
to appreciate what Jehovah is like,
to feel his love for them,
and to see how to draw close to him
as their Friend.
The beautiful artwork and motivating videos
have real emotional impact.
This project to produce Enjoy Life Forever!
required the collaboration
of six departments at world headquarters.
As directed by the Governing Body,
the Writing Department researched, wrote,
and proofread the text for each lesson.
These were then sent to hundreds
of brothers and sisters around the world
to test them on their Bible studies.
The Writing Department coordinated the work
with other departments
to keep the project on schedule.
Translation Services helped to simplify
the vocabulary and logic of what was written.
They identified any English text
that would be a problem for translators
to render in their local languages.
As of right now,
Enjoy Life Forever!
has been approved
in upward of 700 languages.
The Art Department designed
the book’s layout and artwork.
Teams in several branches photographed models
to help the illustrators
create the many beautiful scenes
that appear in the book,
which contains over 600 images.
MEPS Programming developed new tools
so that the digital version of the book
in the JW Library® app
would look similar to the printed edition.
This was the first publication
for which both print and digital formats
were designed simultaneously.
Text Processing Services
composed the text and artwork
for both the print and digital formats,
transcribed the book into English braille,
and instructed the branches
on how to produce the book
in their languages.
Audio/Video Services
produced several new videos and excerpts
of many existing videos
from the jw.org website.
They also produced
unique audio recordings of the book
that include various voices and sounds.
This was truly a collaborative effort!
But there was a major problem
that could have stalled this project:
COVID-19.
When world headquarters and the branches
were locked down,
60 percent of the project
still needed to be completed.
And yet, the Governing Body
had given it high priority.
The following video will give you some idea
of how the departments
worked together to get their work done
despite the challenges
they faced during the pandemic.
Everything about Enjoy Life Forever!
is different from any other publication
we’ve produced in the past.
And from the start of the project,
two things were critical:
good communication and good documentation.
But honestly, time and again,
the thing that proved
to be the most important
was reliance on Jehovah.
The Writing Committee’s goal was to create
a first-class digital experience
that would engage Bible students.
The digital design system
had to be completely remodeled
so that Enjoy Life Forever!  would look uniform
whether it’s viewed in JW Library®,
on jw.org, or in print.
Right from the inception of this project,
the brothers looked for input
so that the study material would be
easily available
in as many languages as possible.
And for that reason,
a team from Translation Services
worked along with the writers.
A publication of this size would usually take
about two or three years to complete,
but the Writing Committee
was really interested
in getting the Enjoy Life Forever!  book
out there as soon as possible.
The Enjoy Life Forever!  book
required an intense amount of collaboration.
Right from the beginning,
the Writing Committee
got all six departments together
so we could work unitedly
through the production.
Our existing tool set didn’t have the ability
to style digital publications
like we can with print.
We could do black text
on a white background with gray boxes.
That was the extent of the functionality
that we had available.
Enjoy Life Forever!
is very interactive for the student.
When producing the audio
for this publication,
we endeavored to maintain that feel.
So we added multiple voices, musical cues
and, in some cases,
the audio track for the video
was reedited to teach the point effectively.
When we got to Lesson 32,
we felt that it might be too complicated
to build as a digital experience,
but that’s when
the collaboration really paid off.
It took every tool that we had
and basically every trick in order to build
the digital version of that lesson.
As we were working on the prototype,
we would collaborate
with the User Experience Group
to make sure that the look and feel
of the digital edition
was the same whether it was on a large device
or a small device.
The entire chart is a visual aid.
So we wanted to be sure
that all of our users,
especially those who are visually impaired,
would be able to understand
the teaching point.
This required us to build the chart
so that screen readers could read the text
and that each picture would have
a description for those who needed it.
Early in the concept stage,
we understood that there would be
about 200 videos in this publication,
requiring thousands of hours of work:
eight brand new videos
and of the remaining videos,
around 60 would need to be edited.
Just as eight new videos
were entering their production phase,
COVID-19 hit,
effectively halting
video production around the world.
This work stoppage continued
until each branch could determine
how they could film safely
and still meet the deadline
only nine months away.
Because of the pandemic,
photo sessions here at headquarters
were completely stopped for four months.
Now, as things progressed,
we were able to resume photography,
only by adhering to strict protocols.
For example,
we had a family photograph themselves
while being directed
by the Art Department here.
So everything that a Bible study conductor
had been trained to do
—ask all the important questions,
develop love for Jehovah
in their Bible students, show videos—
it’s all built into the publication.
So would the concept work
with actual Bible students?
To find out, we did in-house testing.
And then at the same time,
we sent out the lessons
around the world to publishers, pioneers,
missionaries, and circuit overseers.
And they used the lessons
with actual Bible students.
We tested every lesson of the book this way.
And then the responses
that we got back were analyzed,
and we made further refinements.
We had hundreds of team meetings,
and we felt Jehovah’s holy spirit
equipping all of us
after we opened a meeting with prayer.
When you collaborate,
you get a better product.
It’s more direct, simpler,
and easier to understand.
Also, thinking ahead
about potential translation problems
and addressing them
helped expedite translation
in hundreds of languages.
I feel that Jehovah helped us
accomplish this job
in a shorter amount of time
and a quality
that would have been very difficult
even under normal circumstances.
How amazing Jehovah is!
With the Governing Body
wholeheartedly embracing the project
and everyone on the production team
willingly giving their all,
we could see clear evidence
of Jehovah’s backing.
Now that we’ve seen
what Jehovah has wonderfully done for us,
what must we do for him?
Remember,
Jesus’ command at Matthew 28:19, 20
applies to all Christians.
Regarding that command,
note what the article
“Keep Busy During the Last
of ‘the Last Days’” states
in the October 2019 issue of The Watchtower:
“As we conduct Bible studies,
“we have to try our best
to ‘make disciples . . . ,
“teaching them to observe
all the things [Jesus has] commanded.’
“We need to help people understand
how important it is
“for them to take their stand
for Jehovah and his Kingdom.
“This means trying to motivate people
to make the truth their own
“by applying what they learn,
dedicating their life to Jehovah,
“and getting baptized.
Only then will they survive Jehovah’s day.”
In most parts of the earth,
people are not waiting in line
for Bible studies.
So we have to be proactive,
trying our best to find people
with whom we can start and conduct
progressive studies,
using our interactive Bible course.
We want as many righthearted persons
as possible
to become
Jehovah’s willing, loyal Witnesses.
Here are seven suggestions
you can write down now and try later.
They really work!
The first and most important is:
Pray for a Bible study.
Never underestimate the power of prayer,
so be specific in your prayers
and keep praying for studies.
Work in harmony with your prayers
by offering studies at every opportunity,
including to your relatives
and acquaintances.
(2) Show people the brochure.
Use the intriguing question on the back cover
to pique their interest.
It asks:
“Is it possible to enjoy life forever?”
Offer to cover the three introductory lessons
in the brochure.
After that,
the person can decide
whether to continue
with the rest of the Bible course
in the book.
(3) Try the direct approach.
Introduce yourself as a Bible teacher,
and come right out and ask people
whether they would like
to learn more about the Bible.
Explain that we have a most enjoyable
and easy interactive Bible course
and that you have openings
in your teaching schedule.
(4) Ask your studies for referrals.
You can do this while studying
the first paragraph of lesson 01.
It asks: “Do you think that the Bible
can help anyone you know?”
If your student mentions a friend,
a relative, a neighbor, or a workmate,
offer to demonstrate the course
to that person.
(5) Approach meeting attenders.
Don’t assume that interested ones
you see at congregation meetings
are already studying.
Ask them,
and if they are not currently studying,
offer to get them started.
(6) Ask non-Witness marriage mates.
When was the last time
they were offered a Bible study?
Even if they had declined an offer
in the past,
they might be interested now.
And they may prefer to study
with someone outside their family.
And (7) talk to those who’ve studied before.
Did you study with someone years ago
in one of our other publications
who did not make any progress?
Why not contact them,
explain that we have
a new interactive Bible course,
and ask if they’d like to study again?
This may be just what they need now
to act on what they learn.
A key principle that applies to the efforts
we put forth in the Bible study work
is found at Galatians 6:9, which says:
“So let us not give up in doing what is fine,
“for in due time we will reap
if we do not tire out.”
So may we never lose our enthusiasm
in making disciples
nor relax our efforts.
With Jehovah’s rich blessing
on our Bible study activity
using Enjoy Life Forever!
we’ll be able to say thankfully:
“O Jehovah, . . . everything we have done
you have accomplished for us”!